I'm going to be giving you my
perspective on the Netflix documentary
series that does a review on the reality
TV show The Biggest Loser.
[Music]
Hi, my name is John Jish. I'm a doctor
of biomedical engineering and today I'm
going to be giving you my perspective on
the Netflix documentary series that does
a review on the reality TV show The
Biggest Loser. There's a few things I
got to get out of the way before I
comment on this. Obesity is one of the
well, it is the biggest early life
ender. that it is the thing that we
notice about people that will guide them
to the earliest death. I take it really
seriously and the fact that there was a
reality show about weight loss
is interesting. It drew a lot of
attention to really big people. Now,
unfortunately, I think society ignores
like like morbidly obese people. I think
they uh typically either work from home
or don't work and kind of hide out and
don't don't interact with society much.
And I think that's just a really sad way
to be. And I think we need to show these
people as much compassion
as we can. And I think the show does
for the most part do that. Though there
were some things that I thought were a
little degrading. For example, I I won't
review the video of that portion, but
there's there was uh some challenges
that some of these overweight people had
to go through where they had to like
pick up and move food with their mouth.
And it was all junk food, of course. It
was like cookies and cake and stuff. And
so they'd have to pick it up and not use
their hands, just just their mouth. So
they're able to taste it but not eat it.
And
the borders on ridicule, which I don't
like, but again, it's a TV show. They
got to show something. The problem is a
TV show about weight loss, if we really
wanted to make scientific, make it
scientific, it would be way more about
nutrition than it would be about
exercise, which is a really bad design
for a show because there's nothing to
really watch. So, what they ended up
doing was they took these overweight
people and they worked them into the
dirt. now they knew what they were
getting into especially past the first
season because all the people who signed
up saw the first season. So I think um a
lot of the alarmism around
how the people were treated is it's just
kind of silly like it shouldn't have
been shouldn't have been like that. Also
I know Jillian Michaels personally uh so
does my wife. we were together uh the uh
Trump's inauguration, more specifically
at the uh Make America Healthy Again
events that were leading up to the
inauguration of the president. And I
think Jillian is an amazing person, very
thoughtful. I think some of the things
she was criticized for in this
documentary
were almost putting unfair pressure on
her. Like one of the things that that
she was criticized for was giving sort
of life kind of counseling advice to
people without being a licensed
therapist. Well, you know what? When
you're working out with people,
sometimes you just need to give them
advice and tell them
to do it in a better way or or or or
something. You you got to you got to
give them feedback. You can't just let
them fail right in front of your face,
especially if you're in charge of
training them. And that doesn't always
come out as nice because what we're
doing is hard work or what they're doing
in the show. What what when what I say
we because there are some really
overweight people that I help. I think
this show did a really good job of
approaching it with compassion,
especially from the side of the
trainers, Jillian and her associate. his
name is slipping in my mind at the
moment. Uh but he was good too. And so I
think if you watch this documentary, you
need to run it through the filter of the
idea that
if anybody
didn't do exactly the perfect thing, it
might be because they're not that's not
their role. So here's another example.
In the show, I believe in episode two,
we were shown somebody who would pass
out during some of these challenges. So,
the physician in the show told her to
just take it easy and focus more on her
diet and less on the exercise. She ended
up doing fantastic
because she followed the doctor's
instructions, but she had a habit of
kind of quitting on these challenges
mostly because I think the doctor said,
"Yeah, the challenges aren't really the
thing. you just need to focus on
nutrition, which gave the show an
interesting dynamic. It made this woman
feel particularly bad because the
trainers were hard on her, but at the
same time,
you just have to be hard on people.
Sometimes you just got to tell them the
truth. So, I'm going to get into these
clips and we're going to review them one
at a time.
>> We were offered to speak to the New York
Post and we did. Is there more to all
that weight loss than diet and exercise?
Former contestants are now claiming they
were encouraged to use drugs to drop the
pounds.
>> Why are we going to continue this and
let producers make billions of dollars
off of us? That's when I came forward.
>> Suzanne broke down in tears as she
watched video of herself on The Biggest
Loser.
>> Being on The Biggest Loser was hands
down the biggest mistake of my life.
>> The article pointed out that this was an
unhealthy diet. I mean, we're eating 800
calories a day. Joel made allegations
against Bob and Dr. H. It was certainly
explosive and caused a lot of discussion
behind the scenes.
>> Allegations in the New York Post. Boy,
there where do I start? One of the
contestants said that she got given a
weight loss drug by one of the trainers
assistants.
I have no knowledge of that. Whether or
not she got a pill, you know, we can
argue about. But saying that she
notified anybody in the medical staff or
in the production side was also a
complete falsehood.
I would never put anyone in harm's way
giving drugs or pills to the
contestants. It's all just
madness. I mean, I will stand behind
everything that I've ever done on that
show. Now they say
metabolic drugs and then they and then
in the the clip it showed people were
jittery. Jittery is like, you know, when
your hands like this when you've had too
many cups of coffee? And the contestants
were required to take in a minimum of
800 calories a day. The question we
should be asking is, is that
irresponsible?
Depending on the individual, I suppose
it could be. But here's the more
important issue. There's a physician
there on the show. If somebody was
having a health problem or if they were
told that they should take something
that's could be dangerous, they should
have asked the physician. And the fact
that nobody brought this up to the
physician even though the physician was
there makes me really think that this
this is some that didn't happen.
Also,
a little bit of extra caffeine for a
metabolic effect. I mean, pretty much
everybody out there does that every day.
I mean, in fact, everybody kind of overd
does that at Starbucks every day. So,
I'm I'm I'm thinking it was a vasoc
constrictor type medication like a
caffeine pill and and later on in the
show, they talk about caffeine pills.
Yeah, there there's no irresponsibility
there. I I think the people that are
complaining about it are people who just
didn't do well in the show and uh you
know they're kind of looking to
complain. Let's check out the next clip.
>> People will do a lot of things to win.
>> My name is Rachel Frederickson. I used
to be a national level swimmer and so
much was on the horizon. I've lost a
huge part of my identity and I want a
second chance to take control back. Hi
everyone, I'm Olivia and this is my
sister Hannah. Since coming in first and
second on the show, we've traveled
across the country to spread the message
that all of us can make a change.
>> There was a finale that Rachel
Frederickson was on and us and several
other alumni were asked to be on that
finale.
>> All we needed was a second chance. And
let's face it, if we can do it, you can
do it.
[Applause]
>> Rachel came out and she had lost so much
weight. It was It was shocking. Jill and
I were just in horror.
>> She was very thin. It It was kind of
startling.
>> Mhm.
>> People's jaws dropped. People took
Rachel Frederickson as someone who took
it too far and not as someone who took
the intended message of the show to
heart. Stunned viewers took to Twitter
to voice their alarm, saying, "This is
the first time I've seen a contestant go
too far. Also, I think it's kind of sad
how young girls and teens are watching
this as an example." So far, no word
from NBC or The Biggest Loser. She was
unhealthily thin, to say the least.
Personally, I wouldn't have allowed it
to happen, but I profited off of a
platform that did. And this is when I
was like, "Okay, I'm complicit and I
have to leave."
>> I think Jillian's right in a lot of
this. I'm not going to sit here and say
that The Biggest Loser was perfect or
that The Biggest Loser didn't make
mistakes, but we did everything we could
to stay on top of their progress.
>> When you look at the level of weight
loss that was there, was she too skinny?
Was she, you know, looking like she was
starving? I don't know. Maybe. Yeah.
Sometimes people do take weight loss too
far, but you got to keep in mind weight
loss isn't a diet. And we should all
know that by now. It's a lifestyle
change. And sometimes that lifestyle
change
doesn't settle in
easy because lifestyle change means
habit changes. It means you're just
living your life differently. That's
hard. So I I think that whatever this
woman did, she took a more aggressive
approach. Thought that was necessary.
Maybe she went a little too hard at it.
You know, there were no negative health
implications. I I do
understand where Jillian's coming from.
And that was kind of her cue to say,
"Okay, we we've made this extreme weight
loss show a little too extreme." And and
she saw a problem with that. And that I
support that. I think if I had been in
her shoes, I would have made a very
similar
decision. Let's check out the next clip.
>> You know, we live in a different era
now, and so if you had a show today, it
might just be people injecting
themselves once a week.
>> And welcome to the 82nd Golden Globes,
OMIC's biggest night.
[Music]
[Applause]
>> Is this actually a wonder drug? I always
go back and um it's I will see what
Jillian Michaels says about things.
>> You can't get off of it ever. 50% are
going to have gastrointestinal issues,
vomiting, constipation, diarrhea, and
then it gets more nefarious. Yo-yo
dieting on crack.
>> And I go, that's the way I think. That's
the way I feel, you know. And her deal
is is that uh you know what, you get off
of it, you're going to gain the weight
back. I haven't gone on it. There's just
something I just don't feel at peace
with it.
>> Some people will be totally against
this. I can only speak from my own
experience and this is what I had to do
for myself to achieve a healthier heart
lifestyle for me.
>> I have never seen any intervention work
as suspectively of this. It gets rid of
food noise.
>> I think America is looking for a magic
pill, but you know, we've had a lot of
magic pills before. We had fenfent.
We've had Velvik. We've had meridian. It
takes a long time to know what side
effects of a drug are. It's going to be
a while.
>> This is it. Home sweet home.
>> Remember, I got the idea for this show
by an obese person desperately seeking
someone's help to save their life as a
notice pinned on a bulletin board
outside of a gym. I choked up when I
read that. If I were to go make The
Biggest Loser today and start over, I'd
have the balls not to put any prize on
one. I'd fight like hell. We're not
giving away a penny. Saving your life.
Why do you put a price tag on that?
>> I agree with a producer. Now, I think
it's funny that they decided to get a
review of what Ozmpic does from a whole
bunch of people who really don't
understand GLP agonists. Now, I've done
a few videos on this. If you want to
find them, uh, watch the one about Lizo.
GLP agonist peptides occur naturally in
the body. Uh, in fact, if you take a
statin, if you take a statin drug to
lower your cholesterol, you cut your
natural GLP production in half, which is
why a lot of people who get on statins
put on a lot of body fat after they do
so, uh, because their appetite goes up.
And so what the glucagon-l like peptide
does, GLP, is it mimics glucagon, which
is something that tells you you're full
or tells you you're closer to being
full. So somebody who's been on a GLP
agonist peptide, she says it cuts out
the food noise. Very accurate
description. Now, I have experimented
with GLP3
uh with a micro micro dose. these these
drugs like one of the producers of the
show compared it to fenfen. Well, fenfen
is a fedran and that's a chemical not
found in nature and it gave people some
very bad cardiac side effects. So, he's
comparing that to a peptide that's
naturally found in the body. Now, that
is massively inappropriate. Uh but he
doesn't know that. And I I mean I think
it's like the fact that they even threw
the ompic
argument in this documentary. I I get
why they're doing that. It's like we
have a newer approach to extreme weight
loss and it is better. And I agree with
the people who are commenting that it is
better because it is. There are some
negative things about ompic uh or GLP
agonists.
However, the negative things that are
seen like gastrointestinal blockages,
let's be clear, you're taking a peptide
that slows down your digestion and tells
you that you're full. If you have a
whole bunch of fiber and your digestion
is slowed down and you get an intestinal
blockage,
whose fault is that? Well, probably
yours because you should not be having
fiber on a GLP agonist. Now, if your
physician didn't tell you that, it's
probably because your physician has had
zero days of education on nutrition,
which is why one of the promises Robert
F. Kennedy Jr. made when he took office
was physicians are going to become
educated on nutrition. In in fact, from
a modern medicine perspective, the
biggest lever we have on our own health
is our diet. And physicians don't know
the first thing about it. So I don't
want to be mean to and well I shouldn't
say all physicians. There's just plenty
that do. Dr. Sean Baker, Dr. Anthony
Chaffy, Professor Bart K. He's not
seeing patients. He's a professor, but
uh I think he's probably the smartest
guy in nutrition walking the earth
today. These guys uh they point out that
a lot of the things that get blamed on
certain foods are not because of those
certain foods or from other things or
side effects of drugs like what we're
talking about. Is it a side effect of a
GLP-1 agonist or is it a side effect of
other conditions that these people have?
For example, you see headlines that say
ompic causes blindness. Wrong. It does
not.
diabetes causes blindness and you're
looking at a a diabetic a medication
that was originally designed for
diabetics and you're shocked that some
diabetic is happening to some
diabetic people. You should not be
shocked. That is normal. In fact, the
reason they're taking OMIC is to get
away from things like this. But they're
still a high-risisk population for all
sorts of health problems until they
clean up their diet. Here's here's one
thing about GLOP agonist that you're
never going to be able to get away from.
If you have a nutrient deficiency, which
many overweight people do, in fact,
they're overweight. So, the deficiency
probably has to do with their macro
ratios or inhaling carbohydrates and
fats, and they're probably pretty low in
protein. And what they need to do is be
sky-high in protein and very low in
carbohydrates, if not zero, but you can
still be low and be great. Uh, and then
a moderate moderate amount of fats. You
really don't need more than 50 grams of
fats a day. And and we know that now.
And I think if that show were to ever
come back, I would talk Jillian into
being involved with it because
everything she did was phenomenal. But
there's going to be like I I would
imagine if this show came out today,
there would be a pharmaceutical
component to it because we have these
things now. And man, appetite control.
Keep something in mind. There are many
billion-dollar companies that engineered
food that you couldn't put down. In
fact, there's I'll I'll pop it up on the
screen, but there's like a there's like
a potato chip ad from the 1970s where
there's a guy dressed up as the devil
saying, "You can't have just one." And
he's holding a bag of potato chips.
Yeah, that is the devil because you
can't have just one. So, they spent
billions of dollars engineering food
that you couldn't put down. Now,
somebody engineered
a way to get away from that, and we
should not reject that. I believe the
GLP-1 agonists are going to save
hundreds of thousands of lives because
obesity is the killer here. It's it's
it's not the solution. And and pointing
fingers at the solution is just
shortsighted. I don't want to call it
dumb because like we need to read about
this. We need to look into it. We need
people to understand that if you slow
down your digestive tract, you need to
cut fiber to almost zero. But people
don't know that. Almost every day when I
talk to physicians, I say this and they
say, "I didn't even know that." And it's
amazing admission, but it's like it
doesn't say that in the in the physician
education that we get when we start to
prescribe OMPic. Yeah, it should be and
I bet it is now because they've they've
had the chance to revise those things.
But, uh, being educated in nutrition is
super important. Now, there's one other
aspect that we have been
exposed to in this documentary and there
was so many clips about it. I I didn't
want to review those because I just want
to speak generically in a different
video. So, I'll make another video about
The Biggest Loser damaged my metabolism.
See you on that next video. Uh, cuz
that's that's got to be a whole video
itself. Leave a comment and let me know
what you think of my good friend Jillian
or how that show went or how you would
see a better version of that show come
out because ultimately I think there
will be a reboot of that show. It needs
to happen. There's a lot of big people
out there and they need a lot of help
and we need to approach their problem
with compassion as a society. Like we
can't make fun of them. We can't have
them looking silly. So the whole like
challenges where they pick up food with
their mouth that's got to get cut out.
But there's something really important
here. And uh I think the people who lost
the weight and kept it off should be
proud. The people who didn't give
another shot at it. I don't think people
should be allowed to easily give up.
Now, if somebody legitimately wants to
give up, okay, well, can't make
everybody do it, but peer pressure can
be used in a very positive way to help
improve lives and in this case save
lives. So, let me know what you think
and I'll see you on the next video. If
this video helped you, I want you to
subscribe and follow. I'm going to put
out videos on a regular basis. I think
they're going to help a whole lot of
people, especially if you're one of
those people that doesn't just instantly
grow from lifting regular weights. We've
got the answer for you.